Bachelor of Science (Honours)
Computing
Semester 2


Module:
Social Media and Communications

Group CA3


Report Writing
A Social Media Strategy for Fit4Less Tallaght


Lecturer: Glenn Mehta
Submission Date: 27th April 2015

Student Details:						Word Count
Ruairí Keogh - X00121581				9195
Khaya Khumalo - X00089102
Eddy Ekofo - X00119959
Ray Ji - X00119201
Yer Khan - X00118647








Table of Contents							Page   Number
Introduction								 3
Social Media Used by the company					 
Introduction							 4
Types of social media used					 4
Methods of Advertising					 	 5
Feedback and Responses					 6
Competitors to Fit4Less					 	 6
Different Types of Social Media and How to use them
Introduction							 8
Twitter								 8
Facebook							 9	 
Instagram							10	 
Official Website						11
Other Types Of Social Media					12
Conclusion							13	
Facebook and Twitter Text	
Introduction							14
Facebook							14
Technologies Influence of Facebook				15
Positive Side of Facebook					16
Negative Side of Facebook					16
Twitter								16
The uses of Twitter by Businesses				17
Recommendations						17
Social Media Marketing Through Visual Mean
Introduction							19
YouTube							19
Vine								20
Instagram Video						21
Uses in Marketing						21
Steps To Follow						22
Recommendations To Follow					22
Implementation of Social Media Strategy 
Introduction							24
Deciding Goals							25
Defining Audience						26
Researching Platforms						27
Planning Content for Platforms					28
Developing Social Media Presence				


Introduction
For the purpose of this assignment we will be analysing the current social media strategy for Fit4Less gym and proposing a new social media strategy designed by us.
Fit4Less is part of Energie fitness, it is located in Tallaght Dublin 24. It is currently a one story state of the art gym with multiple highly trained personal trainers ready to help customers with all their needs.
As a group we have divided this assignment into sections in which we all individually analyse and propose different key sections of social media in order to provide the best strategy that we could design. We researched the main aspects to having an effective social media presence for a company and how to develop on the current presence the company had.
We started by analysing the current social media strategy and made some points of where the company was strong at and where they lacked.
We then moved on to an in depth description of types of social media and how to use them to their full potential.
Next we went into detail about the importance of text on social media particularly on Facebook and Twitter two of the most popular forms of social media in the present day.
Following that we moved into the visual means of social media with respect to social media sites such as YouTube, Vine and Instagram.
Last of all we developed a final section on how the company can implement our newly developed social media strategy.



Section 1 - Social Media Used by the Company
Ruairí Keogh - X00121581

Introduction-
The company we are working with is called Fit4Less. They are a gym run by Energie Gyms. The current social media strategy they have in place is basic with the majority of their focus on Facebook. They also interact with Twitter and Instagram. The company focuses on these following aspects to help promote the business and gain a larger following: Update their social  media pages regularly, post information that is relevant, using a bought boost to focus on a certain group of viewers, giving fitness tips, competitions and tag chains such as “tag a friend who does this” and finally humorous posts that can give the page positive feedback and gain likes.

1.1 Types of Social Media Used-
Fit4Less have a popular Facebook page with 3972 likes [Facebook] Available from: http://facebook.com/Fit4lessTallaght [accessed 15 April 2015]. The Facebook page currently gets between 1-30 likes per post. This is poor for a page with that many likes, from our new social media strategy we hope to increase this and bring more traffic towards the page. The Facebook page is strong with information about the company. They regularly post updates for opening times and improved deals on membership for the gym. As this company is quite large and has various different locations the branch we will focus on is the Tallaght Fit4Less gym. There is individual Facebook pages which can interact with each other and help boost the growth of the pages.
Another social media page the company has is a Twitter, here they have 1151 followers [Twitter] Available from: http://twitter.com/@fit4lessD24 [accessed 15 April 2015]. The Twitter page is not as developed as the Facebook as they don’t reach as wide an audience as the Facebook page but the quality of posts and information is very similar to the Facebook. The Twitter posts that Fit4Less make are not very popular as they only get small numbers of retweets and favourites. This will need to be improved to help increase the audience and engagement that the page receives. 
The last social media account they have is an Instagram account. They currently only have 127 followers [Instagram] Available from: http://instagram.com/fit4lessd24/ [accessed 15 April 2015]. For the number of followers the page receives a good amount of likes ranging from 2-21 likes on their posts. Once again they have quality information regarding their whereabouts and times for classes. If our new strategy can focus on the aspects they are missing then we could see the pages improve immensely in a short number of weeks.. 

1.2 Methods Of Advertising-
The company currently has various different methods of advertising ranging from competitions to boosts.
The company currently tries to gain a larger following by posting daily with gym trends, witty humour involving gym jokes or general funny pictures, competitions, “tag a friend” chains and also boost attractions. As some of these cost money, such as competitions and the boost attractions, the company needs to see an increase in their audience otherwise they are at a lost. To help the company reach as wide range of viewers as possible they need to be attractive to a new customer. The competitions need to appeal to a specific type of audience, for example if they wanted more couples or groups they could run a competition to win two memberships at once so they have more groups of people entering rather than a single person. 
The boost attraction they use can be very help full or non-existent depending on how they focus the audience too. If they look at their current following and see its for say mostly males ages 18-30 and go and set the boost to those requirements they might not see any increase as they are already reaching that criteria. They will need to change it so it’s the people they are not reaching with their normal everyday posts.
According to the FIt4Less manager Jack Kenny at current the company spend between €800 and €1500 a month on advertising . This includes their social media methods and also going to other businesses to attract and some television advertisements but they tend to be too expensive and outside of their price range. 
The main attraction for the company is the prices for a full year membership. The normal prices for memberships are €229 for a year and €24.99 for a month [Online],  Available from: http://www.f4l.com/tallaght [accessed 21 May 2014].. These prices would be low compared to a lot of the bigger gyms around such as Ben Dunne but average with regards to what you get as it is only a small one story gym. 

1.3 Feedback and Response-
At current the social media pages run by Fit4Less mainly consists of posts by the company with a limited amount of feedback coming from the customers. On the Facebook page used by the company they have an average of 4.6 stars out of 5 from 220 public reviews. Out of the 220 reviews only 10 were rated 1 star  [Facebook] Available from: http://facebook.com/Fit4lessTallaght [accessed 15 April 2015]. This is very positive for the company as it shows they are achieving a high standard of customer service. Out of the ten 1 star reviews only one had a message written with it. This person directed their disappointment at one team member in particular and asked to be removed from a mailing service she availed of, the company then replied within 9 hours of the post. The message they replied with could be improved significantly as they lacked interest in helping the customer. The feedback time should be improved in our new social media strategy.
If the company is to retain a good reputation of responses the should have a set plan to when they check for any questions and inquires that current and possible future customers might post to them. 
to help make the customer feel like they are having a serious conversation with a person rather than just a Facebook or twitter page for example the company employee should leave their name at the end of the post so that the customer has a reference to who they are speaking to and if the discussion carries on over a long time they can always turn back to the same person or if needed contact another member of the team to try help with whatever problems or queries they have.

1.4 Competitors to Fit4Less-
At current there is only three gyms in Tallaght. They are Fit4Less, Westpark Fitness and Tallaght Leisure Centre. Out of these three gyms Westpark Fitness would be the largest in size as it has multiple stories and a large outdoor running track. Fit4Less has been competing against these two gyms since they opened. As both these competitors are active on social media it means Fit4Less needs an effective social media strategy in order to compete and hopefully expand as a company. 
 As well as focusing on their own social media strategy Fit4Less should also monitor their competitors and work off what they are doing effectively, Harper, Ben (2014) says “By Understanding their performance in detail, you can optimize your plans for success”.
 They wouldn’t be just copying them and hoping they gain customers but should look at different competitions and classes and see how they can appeal to customers of other gyms and hopefully be able to persuade them to join Fit4Less.
The three gyms in mention all have similar facilities except Fit4Less lack a swimming pool. This means they need to work with their strengths such as having multiple treadmills and rowing machines along with a TRX( Total Resistance eXercise) machine. They also have a large section devoted to just weightlifting which means they can appeal to the majority of customers looking for a good gym to get healthy and gain muscle.

Section 2 - Different Types of Social Media and How to Use Them
Ray Ji - X00119201

Introduction
Nearly every business nowadays uses social media whether for update news, communication or to promote themselves. Social media can be described as a tool for a group of people who has the same interest and activities to create an online society. These services are mainly based on the internet, providing the user with many different kinds of communication methods. For example, e-mail and voice calls. People can also share information, ideas and photos in this virtual community.
As a group we interviewed a gym called ‘Fit4less’, this is a local gym which provides services and facilities at a low price. There are questions prepared for the interview such as ‘What type of social media is being used’ and ‘What is the current social media strategy’ etc. This section is going to be mainly focus on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram as well as other social medias, because the company mainly uses these three social media websites to promote and attract customers. Different type of social media is designed for different purposes, Such as Facebook is mostly used for updating and sharing personal information and communication with friends. Whereas LinkedIn is a more professional website, which can provides an professional identity, knowledge and insight, and also business opportunities.

2.1 Twitter
Twitter is a social media network, it allow the user to update messages or news not more than 140 words, these messages are known as a ‘Tweet’. Twitter has been set up in 21st March 2006. The formal CEO Dick Costolo states, until March 2012, Twitter has around 140 million active users, and these users will update around 340 million tweets every day. Twitter is been described as an internet messaging service. Unregistered users can read public tweets and registered users can update tweets through the website, message, and other applications. Twitter is one of the top 10 most visited websites.

For promotion, the gym has to attract more followers. This will let more people to become familiarize with the update information and news about the gym, such as special offers or the photos of the gym. It has 1,150 existing followers at the moment, and trying to gain more followers. This can be done by putting up updates and posting tweets every day, these tweets should be something that the customers and people find interesting in, such as the most recent fitness trends. Also tagging friends is important, this can help to become more interactive with its friends, and will develop into a chain reaction. Which is if people finds the tweets interesting, they’re also going to tag their friends, so the information and the Twitter account get spread out and passed on, the more interaction with the customers, the faster development of the relationship between the business and consumers. To keep the followers interested, have to keep sharing amusing moments about everyday life, such as the stories about people coming into the gym. Not only updates the information of the gym. Also take in consideration and reply to the feedback and suggestions from the customers, this will make the customers to become more satisfied. All these little things will catch people’s eyes, because for large business, they might not have the time and people to reply for all these messages.

2.2 Facebook
Facebook has been set up since 4th February 2004. Not only text messages, users can also sent pictures, videos and voice messages, other types of documents now also supported. At the start, only the students from Harvard University could register on the website, later it get spread to other students around the Boston area, until now it allow anyone who is over the age of 13 to register.
Users must to be registered to allow access to Facebook. After register you can make personal files, add other people as friends, sending messages, and receive automatic notification when other people updates. There are also groups with people who shares the same interest,  has the same job or working together, and studies in the same college. Until September 2012, Facebook got billions of active users. Facebook’s founder ‘Mark Zuckerberg’ is one of the most famous CEO in the world.

Facebook is important for Fit4less, it has all the price and rates on the Facebook page, also the timetables for the lessons giving out throughout the week. The gym always updates the Facebook page regularly, and it has 3,946 followers at the moment. There are two type of account on Facebook, personal account and company account. For the company account, if a person like the page, they can follow it and there is no limit to it. But for a personal account, you have to add the people and they have to accept it. Because Fit4less’s Facebook account is public, so even people didn't follow the page can still view it. When there is interaction with a customer, there is a chain reaction behind this. Once interact with someone, the information is going to get into his or her Facebook page, people can be classified by groups, which means people will have friend has the same interest. So in the friend list of the person made interaction with, there might be potential customers for the company. Facebook has a data analysis, which is one active user on Facebook, has an average of 150 friends. So if the company put in effort on the content of the promotion, the information can get spread out easily by its customers, also is very cost-efficient for the company.
All accounts need to be registered, no matter is a private or public account, once registering an account, all the personal information get stored in the system. So for the company’s point of view, when the customers follow the company’s page, in the background the company can view the detailed information of it followers. Such as age, gender, nationality, and also the time range of which the customers view the page most etc. Once knowing all these information about the customers, it can help the company to become more productive and customer-focused on the marketing strategy.

2.3 Instagram
Instagram is a free online social media website which provide the service that allows to upload and share pictures and short videos. It is being released in October 2010. It let the user to take a picture from their smartphones and use different filters from the application then share it on the on the social media websites such as Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr, Flickr and also other social media services or on the Instagram server. The name of ‘Instagram’ is formed of two words combined together, which are ‘instant’ and ‘telegram’. Because the concept of the founder came from the instant camera, and also sharing the photo between people and people should be as fast as sending a telegram. The characteristic of using Instagram is that all the photo taken by the app is squared in shape, the effect is like using the Polaroid camera.

Businesses uses this application for promotion purposes, such as the gym Fit4less. The business upload photos of special offers regularly and weekly timetables, also their product on sale in the gym, such as water bottles or nutrition’s. Instagram has only started for the company, and it already has 130 followers at the moment which is a good start. On Instagram if aiming to gain more followers, the method is to keep update interesting photos. It sounds easy, but the company have to keep looking for and focused on the photos that are related to the business, product and also the most importantly photos based on everyday life. These are all the aspects the customers would be interested on. Secondly, constantly posting new photos, if people see a account that haven’t update for a long period of time, and suddenly in one day a lot of pictures of the product or promotions just pops up on the screen, this will probably disfavour the customers and makes them to unfollow the page. The best way is to find an appropriate time and method and update some useful photos that will gain the followers interest and on a regular basis. Another thing is to let the general public get involved, this means don’t always be concentrating on the things that being updated, also make interactions with people. On Instagram, when uploading a photo, comments can be added in, and inside the comment, there is a way of tagging people or friends using the ‘@’ symbol, or use ‘#’ for the keywords that may wanted to be highlighted, this will make the business more easily to set up a content competition. For example, set up a competition that the followers put up photos about their training progress in the gym and outside the gym, ask the follower to # the theme of the competition on the title of the photo, and then the business can choose the best one out of all the people getting involved, then giving out a prize such as nutrition’s could be helpful while going to the gym. This is an easy general public activity, but it can makes a huge difference on the customers, people will feel more engaged. Also if the business is looking for an idea or innovation about something, Instagram simply let the user to type in the keyword and search for it, when you type in the search box, then suddenly millions of photos that related would came up on the screen with # in-front of them.

2.4 Official website
As well as social medias, many of the business nowadays has their own website, which are designed in a special way to attract the consumers. Fit4less is the same, the company’s website came first then it will be the social media websites. Inside the webpage top left has the logo of the gym, and on the main page there is just big ‘gif’ formatted picture which changes colour automatically about the special offers when joining the gym membership, this catches people’s eyes, then a brief description in words about the gym and a short video of the inside. Everything is clearly laid out with a menu bar on top of the page, it allows you to choose to view different information’s and functions.

As said the website is mainly used by the company, so everything is designed in an unique and smart way. On top of the logo there is four little icons, which shows the Google+, Facebook, Twitter, and LinkedIn. These four icons leads to the company’s main page of each social media websites, this is a good way for the people who has viewed the company’s webpage become noticed about the different social medias the company is using.

2.5 Other types of social medias
Official website, Facebook, Twitter and Instagram are the most popular social medias. But there are also other forms of social media, such as YouTube for uploading, sharing and watching videos online. The website is registered on February 2005, and has a slogan called “Broadcast Yourself”. Some of the media companies has corporate relationships with YouTube which they are able, such as the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC), Columbia Broadcasting System (CBS) and VEVO etc. 
In November 2006, Google has purchased the company with 1.65 billion dollars, and running the company as a subsidiary. It is complete free for use, and don’t need to register a google account unless for uploading videos on the website. Then a registered user can upload unlimited amount of videos.

Another social media would be LinkedIn, this is much more professional compare to the other social media websites. It is set up in December 2002, and become fully operated from May 2003. Established by Reid Hoffman, who is the former vice president of PayPal and senior management of the software company Intuit, and become the CEO of LinkedIn.
LinkedIn is not a recruitment website, the business model for LinkedIn is to provide the users a free service for professional social platform, and create many different applications on this platform. The best and most effective application is to provide a recruitment solution for the businesses. Fit4less also linked to the LinkedIn account of its main company, called ‘The Energie group’. On this page, it shows the different aspects of the company, such as the company type, company’s headquarter, company’s size etc.

Conclusion
As a conclusion, the report discussed about the different types of social medias and how to use them in the business world. Every business needs to advertise themselves for its products or services so people will make purchases. Social medias has become a low-priced way of promotion which helps the company to reduce it cost on advertisements. Different social media are for different purposes, such as Facebook and Twitter are mainly focused on posting status. For example, a company can post up the current special offers etc. But LinkedIn is a tool for making connections between peoples in a more professional manner. Also for if business want to catches people’s attention and become success for advertising on social medias, interaction with the general public is strongly important, because everyone wants to feel involved. So social medias plays an important role for today’s business to become success, which can reduce cost and saves time.


Section 3 – Facebook and Twitter Text 
Yer Khan – X00118647
Introduction 
Since we had our interview with Fit4Less I have found that they already use Facebook as one of their main methods of Social Media, they’re working on Twitter as a form of Social Media and they have just started using Instagram. Hence why in this section, there will be an explanation to the positive side and negative side of Facebook and how technology influenced it. I will also be talking about how the use of Twitter will be beneficial for the business and the different uses of technology by a business. This section will explain what sort of text to use to help promote and show a good business to the public through the use of Social Media. The two major forms of Social Media that will be used are Facebook and Twitter as already mentioned above.
 
3.1 Facebook
Facebook is one of the biggest forms of social media to this day. It is “the current dominant force in Social Media”.  There are over 1.28 billion monthly active users as of March 31, 2014 with 802 million daily active users on average. That is a lot of daily active users. Therefore the best Social Media to promote a business would be Facebook. Fit4Less is using Facebook as their main form of Social Media and is doing a very good job using it. It’s a form of Social Media where they can provide sales, advertise and also just give information about the business. On Facebook, everything is connected, an average user has about 270 friends, and each one of them will have another 270 making that 729,000 from just two people the message will go around to. Information is passed very fast from one user to the other making it the best source of Social Media. Fit4Less already provides information about their gym on their own Facebook page which is very active. One way they advertise is by giving promotions such as if the page gets a certain amount of likes then they give free protein supplements to all their members. Or even post training or workout jokes, so if someone sees it, they will tag their friends who’s into workouts and will make that post go into their newsfeed, publicising Fit4Less. They also post information about workouts, on what’s good to eat and what exercises are good to do with the food that have been eaten, a guideline for a day to day healthy and fit lifestyle.
 
 
3.2 Technologies Influence of Facebook
Technology has had a great impact on Facebook. It is one of the reasons why Facebook is so popular. The ease of access to Facebook makes users go on their newsfeed as soon as they can. A few years ago, before smartphones were so popular, when you got onto a Luas or any form of public transport you would see people communicating with those that are around them but now, when you get onto public transport, what you see is every single person looking down and typing away on their smartphones on some form of Social Media which is most likely to be Facebook for at least five minutes at the bare minimum. The easier access to the internet is the main reason it is easier to access Facebook, Twitter, Snapchat and other forms of Social Media. It is also getting cheaper to access the internet when not at home because now if you don’t pay for mobile data then you may connect to someone’s hotspot and connect to the internet without having to spend a penny and that other person won’t have any extra costs either. Even Dublin bus and many shops have free Wi-Fi available to connect to which gives them more of an internet coverage also making it cheaper once again. For Fit4Less, technology has influenced them to use Facebook because they know that they can connect with thousands and thousands of people who are not only attending but also just checking the page for information. They currently have 4000 Facebook users that have liked them. That means that they have 1,080,000 users that may be able to see their posts without even liking or searching for them on Facebook. Fit4Less is currently using this to their advantage by updating their page every single day which also shows that the company cares about what they post, that it’s alive and people can trust them. Not only does it show they care about what they post but also of their company, members and followers. From the interview we have done from them, we have seen that they post on Facebook in an appropriate manner. They post some Humorous pictures, videos and also informative videos and pictures. Everything they post is in relation to the company itself. They post for both hard core bodybuilders and also for those that are just trying to lose weight or even those who are just trying to tone up their bodies. They post for all of them accordingly and appropriately.
 
 
 
 
3.3 Positive Side of Facebook
The positive side of Facebook is that you may connect to thousands and thousands of people with just a few simple clicks. Connecting to one person means you’re connecting to all of his or her friends and then connecting to all of his or her friends is the same as connecting to his or her friend’s friends, and so on. Facebook is the most dominant form of Social Media and so therefore is the best form of Social Media to use to advertise the company and also connect with members and others around the place. Not only is it the most dominant but also the simplest forms of Social Media to use. Many people also connect with you on Facebook, whereas on other forms of Social Media they just browse as many people consider their Facebook profile very important to them. Facebook is also a very good way of listening to what your potential customers want. They will post, ask and show you what you want without hesitation which will allow you to give the customers what they want. But Fit4Less have said that they don’t side-track on their page and they only do things related to the company on the company's Facebook page.
 
3.4 Negative Side of Facebook
But the negative side to Facebook is that as you keep using it you may side-track and end up going of the point of using Facebook. You may end up posting things that have nothing to do with the company itself. Another thing that tends to happen which Fit4Less also mentioned is that they get too many notifications which causes a possibility of accidentally not resolving a query that has been posted on Facebook or even not seeing certain comments which have been posted that is bad about the company, and one of the most important thing about a successful business is to listen to your customers, as stated in Infinite Ripple by Glenn Mehta, “Listening gives you knowledge of what customers want from you in terms of new offerings and how you can make your existing offerings more appealing.”
 
3.5 Twitter
Twitter is the fastest growing form of Social Media. They got about averagely 500 million tweets or more in 2014.  It has 255 million active users on it and also about 974 million Twitter accounts that have never actually posted a Tweet. Twitter slowly grew enough to allow charities and organizations to use Twitter to advertise their events using hash tags. Hashtags are what have gotten Twitter so popular with its 140 word limit. It’s short and snappy. It also has recently released a short video system. Twitter is a Social Media that allows you to follow people and allow people to follow you, so people keep up to date with what’s going on. From a business point of view customers that follow a business would be able to have customers follow them so they can see what the latest trends are in the company such as promotions and new stocks. You can get millions and millions of followers which all depends on which hashtags you end up using and what you tweet because it’s the hashtags that people look up and using the right one will lead all them to you.
 
3.6 The uses of Twitter by Businesses
A business would use twitter to post current products and new products and also upcoming products for people to see and plan and also decide on what products to buy, especially if the company tweets about the latest promotions that are going on. All these tweets will keep people interested in what is being posted on the company’s blog. Fit4Less have recently started a Twitter account and is working on it to improve it and get more followers. They are posting appropriately and they have said that they have a good amount of followers although that isn’t their main form of advertisements. They prefer going out in person than posting on Social Media. Fit4Less is currently tweeting about what they is what workout day, for example, Thursdays are Leg day or posts just like that. It’s a good form of snappy tweets.

3.7 Recommendations 
One of the most important things I would recommend to do is to connect their Facebook page to their Twitter and to all other Social Media pages they have.  They should start tweeting posts such as motivational quotes that will push followers to actually work out and go to gym more often. I would also recommend them to do Twitter competitions. I would also recommend them to do more Twitter Raffles, which will encourage customers to engage with their Twitter accounts and will also encourage and make followers on Twitter to go onto their blog and have a look through it and get information for themselves and they might start wanting more and more information and then they may also want to join and get in touch in person. It’s a very good way to be fast and snappy and get to the point due to the 140 word count. I would also recommend that they do more competitions on Facebook because they have more followers on Facebook and more people will see it and one last thing I would advise them to do is to advertise their Twitter page on their Facebook page because most of their followers are on Facebook and from there they will get a lot of other followers on their other accounts because they should advertise all of their Social Media accounts on it.
 


Section 4 - Social Media Marketing through Video Means
Khaya Khumalo - X00089102

 Introduction
Since the fit4Less focuses their strategies on text based social media, hence we must sway Fit4Less to use video social media. This section will be based upon advertising through social media, through video  means. In this section three major,  video based social media websites will be mentioned and their features will be discussed. The three websites will be YouTube, Vine and Instagram. We will also discuss what these websites are and their features and what they are commonly used for in marketing. Steps and guidelines will also be featured, showing how to have a successful advertising  campaign, through social media. At the end of this section of the report there will be recommendations for businesses to follow.

4.1  YouTube
YouTube is one of, if not, the best marketing tool available in today's  business world. One of the main reasons why YouTube is so powerful is due to the fact that it offers a business to customer relationship on a very large scale. In fact there are 1 billion active users on YouTube and 6 billion hours of video watched per month and O’Brien (2012) says by the end of 2012 73% of Irish businesses use YouTube.  YouTube has grown so much that it has made television a thing of the past for a large and growing number of individuals. 
Along with YouTube’s vast popularity, it is also free to use. This freedom allows the customer to be able to browse the business's content, allowing a higher chance of the customer to be swayed, in the business's favour. With all this, one can achieve a highly profitable and inexpensive business to customer marketing relationship. 
Another one of YouTube's many features is the subscribe button. This feature allows registered members of Google to subscribe to a certain channel to get updates of new activity on said subscribed YouTube channel. If Fit4less creates a YouTube account and informs their followers on Facebook or Instagram and their customers, the majority of their followers are more likely to subscribe. With the right content produced, customers will assist the business to gain recognition.
Like many other social media websites, YouTube, has a "like" system where users can like a video. This feature allows a video to gain more recognition. 
When a video is uploaded, the comments section of YouTube is usually ripe with customer feedback. These comments are great, due to the fact that it customer give feedback. This feedback is directly from the customer and is great, because this way businesses have the ability to analyse them and observe what is done correctly or not. 

 4.2 Vine
On the 24th of January, 2013, Twitter's development team launched Vine. Vine exploded on the social media scene. With 100,000 videos posted in one weekend. Vine is a simple website that uses six second looping videos. This method used, of six seconds, is perfect for the target audience. These six seconds is the perfect length to capture and retain the attention of all individuals. 
Like YouTube Vine is also free and easy to use. With this Vine produces a vast array of users. Companies have now utilized popular private users. This method allows the company to have an indirect marketing relationship with their customers. 
Since Vine is a platform created by Twitter, hashtags will be a frequently used tool used to track trends. Hashtags are used in a variety of methods, ranging from humour to an effort to raise awareness. 
One of the many reasons why Vine had such an explosive emergence, is due to the fact that with it came a new way to record videos. To record a video, the user must tap and hold, until a seven or six second video is recorded. This new and exciting feature made for an explosion of diverse creativity. Businesses have taken full advantage of this, bringing a fresh and exciting method of marketing.
In Vine's short existence. Vine has proven to have a large amount potential, within the marketing industry. This is because of its unique and youthful presence in the social media world.





4.4 Instagram video
Instagram is owned by Facebook, with 200 billion users a month and 20 billion photos and videos posted a month. Instagram video emergence is currently surpassing the online presence that Vine has. These qualities make Instagram an excellent marketing platform. 
Vine and Instagram video are both quite similar. Both websites use short length videos. Instagram video is receiving more attention due to the fact that, Instagram has added more complex, yet still simple, editing features. With these feature advertisers can utilize these features to make their advertisers more appealing and presentable.

4.5 Uses in marketing
As mentioned above, today's connected world video sharing platforms have become quite popular. With popularity, comes individuals who create a vast and unique trend in videos. array of videos. The main function of these video platforms is to “broadcast yourself”.  Businesses can use this ability to broadcast, to  make a successful and inexpensive marketing strategy. In this section we will go through how video sharing platforms can be used to maximize marketing.
Moritz (2015) says “How to” videos have become popular as an instructional video. These instructional videos are great as a marketing tool. This is due to the fact that, if these videos are done correctly, the customer will gain knowledge and note the company that provided the instructions, hence (the company) gaining popularity in the process. This trend is seen on
websites like YouTube, where there are many tutorial workout videos that gain recognition. With this recognition, the providers of these videos  increase their sales of external merchandise.
A business like Fit4Less, that uses traditional forms of advertisements can also post a traditional advertisement on these websites. As traditional forms of advertisements are still used on today’s website and are still effective. These advertisements are great for showing the customer what your business has to offer. This trend can be seen on Vine where users such as  Zach King, edit videos and make special effect  in videos, to show users what his business (an online school of film ) can teach.
Moritz (2015) also says video sharing websites can also be used to announce a new product. Many organizations use social media to reveal their new products. Technological companies are popular for using social media in this manner. Products reveals through visual means has proven to be very popular as a marketing strategy. A company like Fit4Less can use this method to reveal new gym equipment.
Event sharing is another frequent use of videos. This method is great, because it keeps the customer updated and informed of all upcoming events. Nearly all organizations that use social media, post event sharing. Event sharing can also be used to promote events hosted by the organisation  itself or for other organisations. This use of social media  is quick and easily  done and  is usually placed in other videos. Fit4Less can also use event sharing videos to  share events such as classes and others.

4.6 Steps to follow
Videos bring  all of the aspects of marketing into one, for example sound and video. Video marketing is effective and requires planning before a video marketing campaign is launched. In this section, we will outline steps for Fit4Less to follow when launching a video marketing campaign. The goals or objectives will be discussed further, where we will go through the goals required to make a successful marketing campaign.
According to magnet video (2015), one of the first steps that should be considered, when launching a video marketing campaign,  is to define your organisation’s “campaign objectives”. According to many sources from our research and as seen in our lectures, defining goals and objective is the first step to be considered. The objectives could be for gaining more recognition or popularity, increasing revenue, increasing customer numbers or receiving customer feedback.
The following step that we would suggest to Fit4Less is to utilize their magnet video (2015), established  target audience. Fit4Less has a huge range of age among their customers, from young adults to  middle aged individuals. Establishing this step, allows the organisation to plan their methods and approach. Their methods could affect which website Fit4Less uses, also what type of content they publish.

4.7 Recommendations to follow
In this section, recommendations will be made for Fit4Less to follow, based on the strategy report written above and other sources. Not only will this section have instructions to follow, this section will also outline strategies to avoid.  
The first recommendation is  that Fit4Less should thoroughly plan the steps to follow, as mentioned in section 4.6. Following these steps will allow Fit4Less to make a detailed plan, that the franchise will follow. It is common knowledge that in any endeavour that one embarks upon, a detailed strategy is  a necessity in order to be successful. Unfortunately Mehta (2013) says “many simply have no social media strategy”. This proves to be a blunder in today’s marketing world. As many companies, that have these strategies prove to have a sharp rise in popularity.
Mehta  (2013) says  companies should avoid a dense sales pitch within their marketing campaigns. Fit4Less should also follow this philosophy too. Instead of taking this approach Fit4Less should engage their audience. Customer engagement can be achieved through a number of methods. For example Fit4Less can post short or full exercise video tutorials, or “how to” videos, this is seen on YouTube channels such as Hasfit (2007), where countless workout video are posted daily. The advantages of posting such videos are mentioned above in section 4.5. Another method to gain engagement is too appeal to the young users of these video sharing platform websites. To do this Fit4Less must make short, humorous and regular. Examples of this are seen on websites like Vine, where companies like ASOS use Vine to show ,Fleishman (2013) “how gratifying open up a box can be”. This “Vine” captured the short attention span of  young individuals, by using humour, creativity, hashtags to categorise and potentially start a trend. and referencing to the notion that online shopping is not as physical shopping. Fit4Less should also make content that resembles this “Vine”, in Fit4Lessy own way.
After their campaign has been launched, Fit4Less should also check for progress by using the many features available on the video sharing platform websites mentioned in sections 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3. As mentioned above, these websites are currently the best and most commonly used. For example Fit4Less should utilise the share button to share viral videos, which will attract attention and lead potential customers investigate their website further.

Section 5- Implementation of Social Media Strategy
Eddy Ekofo - X00119959
Introduction
The section being reported by the author is called “Implementation of Social Media Strategy”. This section is based on how to implement or “put into practice” the strategy required for having a successful online presence through social media.
“A fabled story exists among many social media professionals in Ireland about companies and political parties who have approached marketing agencies asking them to build them “one of those Facebook things” to win customers and elections! It can be argued that such a lack of understanding of the impact of social media or a poor social media strategy is worse than having none at all.“ Mehta (2013).
 
Mehta discusses that a poor social media strategy is worse than having none at all; well this suggests that in order a company to have an effective impact online they must have an effective social media strategy or plan.
5. The main 6 categories discussed in this section
1 - Setting Goals and Tactics - “companies must walk before they can run”. Metha (2013)
2 - Defining Audience - “Capturing customer consideration is of key importance. Understanding social media as a strategic tool for extending content reach and increasing audience penetration can greatly assist in bringing the product to market.”  Jeffares (2012).
3 - Researching platforms - “A major factor in social media is that big and small companies are at the same level when it comes to the power of communication across social media platforms.” Metha (2013)
4 - Planning Content for Platforms - “For Eason, we optimise social media platforms by delivering relevant and rewarding content to drive awareness and affinity for the brand.” Wilson Hartnell quoted by Metha (2013).
5 - Developing Social Media Presence – “You’re competing with all of your customer’s friends and brands they are already attached and connected to, so your job is to figure how not how to you can be better but how you can be different.” Kerpen (2011)

5.1 Setting Goals and Tactics
Why social media? Well according to Metha (2013) social media will engage with you and your company whether you like it or not, this means whether you have set up a business social media presence or not. Choosing to have an online presence through social media is highly recommended! Yet you don’t want to step in blindly as says Sterne (2010). Different companies will have different goals and tactics. A non-profit organisation e.g. Saint Vincent de Paul (SVP) may replace sales to donations while a fitness company such as Fit-4-Less Tallaght may be interested in views, shares, likes to generate income, interact with customers and build an online community through post, promotions, deals, and different marketing campaigns. It is highly recommended for companies to know well what it chooses to achieve before creating a social media presence, failing to do so can cause customer dissatisfaction and damage to the company brand. Most customers would review a brand straight after the purchase of a product or service, it’s good to make sure they’re speaking positively about your brand and if they aren’t their problems are dealt with.
5.1.1. Start listening
In order to know your customers’ needs and keep a good customer relation, you must listen to the enquiries of your current and potential customers and understand what their needs are. Everybody loves to feel heard. That’s why building a good and effective online (social media based) customer service would give the brand a great image, and will cause the other online users to use your product or service due to the effectiveness of problem solving practiced by your company. Kerpen (2011) says for the first time in human history, now through social media, companies can listen at scale conversations about them and their competitors. The ability to do such can help determine the company’s budget plans and strategies.
5.1.2. Keep Listening
Yet many would be tempted to “join the conversation” on social media platforms such as Instagram, Facebook, Twitter etc. but it is highly recommended that you listen first before speaking. Kerpen (2011) says social media is not just for speaking but yet interacting and listening, this is a reasonable statement because before talking you must at least understand what’s being said about your company.
Mehta (2013) states three-quarters of Ireland’s online population (and half of every man, woman and child in Ireland) are a member of Facebook. For companies based in the Republic of Ireland Facebook is a good platform to start listening that’s where the majority of the audience is likely to be found.
5.2 - Defining Audience
Kerpen (2013) says whether your target audience is one, a dozen or a hundred plus, now you can engage them like never before all because of social media. Glenn Metha stated said in Infinite Ripple (2013) that social media is one giant soapbox from which even one customer’s reviews of your product can gain an audience of millions. It is important for every business to know exactly who’s their audience; that may include the age brackets and which social media platform(s) is appropriate to do the targeting.
5.2.1. Bacon Salt
“Bacon Salt was an idea that was born out of the minds of two Seattle buddies, Justin Esch and Dave Lefkow, who over a few beers jokingly posed the question—“Wouldn’t’t it be great if there was a powder that made everything taste like bacon?”
The genesis of their success was when Lefkow started a MySpace profile dedicated to Bacon Salt. They then used data openly available on MySpace to seek out people who had mentioned bacon in their profiles—they found over 35,000 such people. They began reaching out to these people to gauge their interest in Bacon Salt, and not only did they find interest, they started receiving orders when they didn’t even have a product yet!” Qualman (2011)
 
The example above shows how Bacon Salt successfully targeted their audience using social media. Choosing the right social media platform to target the audience is important. Before Facebook became a global dominant platform in 2007, mySpace was the leading social media platform. According to socialbakers.com (2015) there are 2.3 million Facebook users in Ireland.
5.2.2. Targeting with Facebook
Facebook is the most used social media platform in the land with 49.37% of the overall population. Facebook is a great platform for a company like Fit4Less Tallaght to target and define its audience.
Once you have found and defined your target audience, then start to listen to (see Chapter 5.1 Setting Goals and Tactics). First find out about their lifestyles, their interests (sports, hobbies), location etc. The authors would recommend you to target an audience with 2-5 km with Fit4Less Gym Tallaght.
Metha (2013) says many students today are part of the millennial generation (Generation Y), this means they have grown up with gadgets, mobile phones, online gaming so they are used to the internet and social media. ITT Dublin is located within 1.2 km of Fit4Less Tallaght, so students studying in ITT Dublin are a great audience to target through social since most students have a profile in most social media platforms. The employed at The Square Tallaght are a great market also that can be exploited through social media, by targeting those employed in Tallaght. The Square Tallaght is located within walking distance with the gym, so carefully defining audience with social media can make the target very specific.
In the past newspapers, magazines, television and radio marketed in a wide audience of people based on demographic criteria: 18-34 years old, 25-54, 18-30 football (soccer) fans etc. in many cases this was too broad as discussed by Kerpen (2011). Thanks to social media marketers can now be more specific when advertising their products.
Researching platforms
5.3. Researching platforms
As Consumers each person uses social media platforms in a different ways, in Some social media platform the more the better. Let’s take, for twitter many tweets a day are acceptable, yet LinkedIn users may see a profile ‘noisy’ if they share excessively as says Hanlon (2014). So choose wisely which social media platform to use. Understand the culture, the tone of the platform can benefit the brand name and can help your company have a successful relationship with its online customers also created an appropriate online presence as a whole.
Hanlon (2014) says if your business is business to business(B2B) which means it sells to other businesses, your main platform is LinkedIn; if your business sells to customers (B2C) then your main platform is Facebook (see Chapter 5.2.2. Targeting through Facebook). The advantage of Facebook is you can connect to other platforms as Instagram, Twitter, or Pinterest.
Different Platforms
Facebook: 1.28 billion people can’t be wrong! The latest number of Facebook users worldwide and the majority of the population in Ireland have a profile also. So Facebook is a  great platform to base most of your social media activities. In April 2010 Facebook introduced “Social Plugins” which allows websites to add, with very simple lines of code, buttons of layer of people’s Facebook information into their own websites. This is a great feature for your business, it can keep track of who likes your brand on Facebook.
Twitter: is a social media playground where frequent activities is acceptable, unlike other platforms. Twitter is increasingly being used by businesses, charities, politicians etc. Commonly by celebrities. The advantage Twitter have over Facebook is it’s more public. While consumers on Facebook are more likely to only share within their boundaries(friends). Because of this marketers use twitter to search conversations and rightly target its target audience or customers
Instagram: images and now videos is about what’s happening here! As declared by Hanlon (2014) Instagram is great for letting people know the current activities at your business, this would give a lively look to your business and it’s great for interacting with your current customers.
5.4 - Planning Content for Platforms
What to post/share?
You have been patient and listened, then continued listening as discussed in the beginning of this chapter. Now you know what your customer wants. (see Chapter 5.1). Now you know what your customers want and what they say about your business, you target them carefully and using their location, hobbies and interests. You carefully have chosen which platform you’re more likely to use. Now what do post or share with them?

Editorial Calendar
Plan Ahead! Create an editorial calendar in advance. Your editorial calendar should include thr strategic plans for your current content for the year ahead. Share this with your team to ensure the whole company is on the same wave length.
All social media channels are content hungry says Hanlon (2014). Think of your content as more than just words, but images, videos and  podcasts. When you hear about a story of how a company has changed a certain one’s life you feel an emotional connection with that company.
“If a picture is worth a thousand words, how many is a video worth?.” Kerpen (2011) An online video through social media allows you to share your stories with your customers, prospects and the whole world as states Kerpen (2011). “Posting to YouTube is more relevant when you have video worth sharing” Hanlon (2014);
1. Content more important than product quality
2. Short and sweet(this is when Instagram can be exploited)
3. Great opportunity to show the brands personality (Through your posts by stories, videos and images).
5.5 - Developing Social Media Presence
A good way to develop an effective social media presence is to figure out ways to do the little things for your customers and your online communities.  through social media you can interact with your customers at all times, not just when they’re on your premises. Find out ways to surprise and delight them, provide unexpected discounts, or add a smile to an individual customer’s face, give them something to remember, win the community’s business because that’s what will makes your business or service something they'll recommend to a friend. Kerpen (2011) says by simply listening (see Chapter 5.1) and responding to everyone’s enquiries about you on Facebook or Twitter, you’re ahead of many companies that that uses social media as a broadcasting tool.

References
Fleishman, H 2013, hubspot, 6 February 2013 Hannah Fleishman:Blog,Available from:http://blog.hubspot.com/blog/tabid/6307/bid/34144/How-15-Real-Businesses-Are-Getting-Creative-With-Vine-for-Marketing.aspx[22 April 2015]

Hanlon, A., 2014. Social Media Marketing. Cork: Oak Tree Press.

Harper, Ben (2014) ‘How To Analyse Your Competitors Using Social Data’, Social Media Explorer, 28 January. Available at: http://www.socialmediaexplorer.com/social-media-research-2/how-to-analyze-your-competitors-using-social-data/[Accessed 22 April 2015].

HASfit, 2007 (video files), Available from: https://www.youtube.com/user/KozakSportsPerform/about. [22 April 2015].

Kerpen D.(2011), Likeable Social Media, USA, McGraw Hill.

MagnetVideo n.d., 7 Steps for Designing Effective Corporate Video Marketing Campaigns Available from: http://www.magnetvideo.com/content/7+steps+for+designing+effective+corporate+video+marketing+campaigns/23476.  [22 April 2015]

Metha, G. (2013), Infinite Ripple - The Social Media Revolution, Dublin, Xlibris Corporation.
 Mehta, G, Prezi Powerpoint.
http://elearning.it-tallaght.ie/pluginfile.php/240930/mod_resource/content/2/Infinite%20Ripple%201%20-%20The%20Social%20Media%20Revolution%20PREZI%20PDF.pdf

Moritz, D 2015, 6 ways to use short video for social marketing. Available from:http://www.socialmediaexaminer.com/use-short-video-for-social-marketing/ [22 April 2015].

Motion, P. I, 2011. 4 steps to enhance your marketing strategy with social media. PT in Motion.

O’Brien, C. (2012) ‘Business use of social media on increase, Deloitte survey finds’, The Irish Times, [Online], 11 October, Available from: http://www.irishtimes.com/newspaper/finance/2012/1011/1224325140910.html [22 April 2015]

Socialbakers.com, 2015. Ireland Facebook page statistics. Available at: http://www.socialbakers.com/statistics/facebook/pages/total/ireland/

Sterne J.(2010), Social Media Metrics: How to Measure and Optimize Your Marketing Investment, 
New Jersey, John Wiley and Sons.

